>> Richard Feldman: All right, so for
this one, we are not going formatter.js,
in fact, formatter.js was
just a part one thing, and
we're not gonna talk about formatting
again until very end of the workshop.
So in part 2 we don't have formatter.js
but we do have a new one called naming.js,
so let's take a look at that.
And basically, inside, sorry,
that's the solutions, whoops,
cheating, this one, naming.js.
So at first, we have the same
exact instructions to run this, so
in your terminal, you can basically do the
exact same command to run every single one
of these exercises, you just need
to do it a different directory.
So if you see the into 2, then now you can
do node index.js and once again, you're
gonna see the exact same thing that we see
at the beginning of all these exercises,
which is some failing tests.
So some of these are passing,
some of these are failing, and
in order to change the failing ones to
passing ones, we are going to, once again,
do the same thing that we did previously.
Where we just scroll down until we find
little arrows here, and yeah, again,
we're not gonna go through
what all this code does.
But you can see this same kind
of some similar patterns,
like some big switch statements.
One thing that is worth noting, this is
something that is gonna come up not only
naming resolution, but
also in type checking, we're gonna use
the same function naming convention,
which is basically just like visit node.
Now, in the previous exercise,
we didn't call it visit,
we called it, what we call it,
format node, something like that.
And this is like a case of what
some people would say is, and
some people would say is not the visitor
pattern, where you're basically just
going through every single node in
the tree and like doing something with it.
So we're gonna do a whole lot of going
through nodes and trees and visiting them,
doing different things to them.
And so in this case,
we are choosing to name it visitNode, but
you could also say name check node,
that would be a fine name for that too or
canonicalize node, if you were
making a canonicalization pass.
But visitNode is kind of the generic name,
it's just like whatever we're going
to do the thing to this node.
And then that's where then right after
that you get your big switch statement.
Okay, so basically we have a couple
of different little to-dos
here that need to be resolved.
So inside declare variable, right now we
have your classic if false, which always
lets that either some debugging or
some teaching materials was happening.
Basically what we wanna do is only report
this error if the name has been declared.
So right now we're just never reporting
the error, but this is one of those
duplicate declaration errors that
we talked about several slides ago.
So this is not the basic,
am I in scope or not,
this is actually I am declaring
a variable right now, and
we wanna see, is this variable
already declared in the same scope?
And if so, that's a duplicate declaration
error, and if not, it's fine.
Now, I mentioned this in the hint here,
but
like there are two ways
you could implement this.
One is I support shadowing, and so
that is basically where I'm not
gonna look at all the scopes,
I'm just gonna, we report an error if
it's in exactly the same current scope.
And if it's in any other scope, it's fine,
it's allowed, that's shadowing.
And then the other way to implement that
would be to say shadowing is disallowed
and like duplicate
declarations is disallowed,
I guess the third way would be
they're both always allowed.
But the test runner expects shadowing to
be supported, so what you wanna do here
is do the presentation that supports
shadowing right here for this condition.
And what that means is look in
the exact current scope that we're in,
not any other scopes.
And if we are only in the exact
current scope that, sorry,
only within the exact current scope,
does this name already appear in that set,
then we wanna report the error and
otherwise we don't.
And then basically,
this is the part where we are actually
gonna add the variable to scope.
So of course,
the main thing that declare variable needs
to do is it needs to actually say, okay,
I got this name, I need to add this to
a scope set, the current scope set.
Otherwise, if I don't add it to
the current scope set, that later on,
when somebody does a lookup,
they're not gonna see it and
they're just gonna get an error.
So this is the second thing
that we are doing here.
And then there's two more
things that we're doing here.
One is visit binary expression, so this is
just to kind of give you a sense of like
in that big switch statement,
it's doing all this branching.
Okay, what happens if we're
going down the parse tree and
we hit a binary expression just
like we did in the last one?
That's plus or times.
Basically what we need to do
here is to visit both nodes
in the parse tree,
the trickier one is the arrow function.
So the arrow function is basically
where you have params and a body,
we need to check that the body
has access to all of the things
in the params as well as the other scopes.
But for the params, we're actually
defining them in scope and and
there needs to be a nested scope here for
the body.
So inside the body, the params should be
in scope but we don't wanna add the params
to the current scope or else we have that
same problem that we talked about before
we got into nesting, where you have
a function that has an argument named n.
And now everybody in the same scope of
that function is declared can access n
because we didn't remember to push
the scope and then pop it at the end.
So this is where we're gonna wanna
actually do that nesting scope.
Okay, so yeah,
one change to declare variable,
one change to add it to scope,
visiting the binary expression.
One is very easy, and even easier
if the answer is right there, and
then visiting the error function,
which is more non-trivial.
>> Richard Feldman: So
first we had the declare variable, so
the first thing we wanna do is just
figure out what is our current scope.
So we have this whole array of scopes,
like we talked about, and
since we are pushing onto that array
every time we introduce a new scope, and
popping when we get exit that scope.
That means that at any given moment, what
the current scope is, is just gonna be
the last one in the array,
cuz we push onto the end of the array.
So current scope is just gonna be scopes,
bracket scopes out length-1.
Then we can say, okay, well, if we
are trying to do the shadowing rules,
that means that we only want to look
in this current scope for the name.
And if the current scope has that name,
then that is not shadowing and therefore
it's a duplicate declaration, whereas,
if we wanted to disallow shadowing,
then we would look at all the scopes and
say, of any
scope up to this point has that name, then
that is disallowed and we give an error.
But since we're gonna allow shadowing
here, we go with just the current scope.
Finally, after we do that check, we're
gonna say, okay, well, now that we have
verified that it's ready to go and all
set and it's not a duplicate, now we can
actually add it to the current scope, and
then from then on it will be available.
Any questions on that one?
Yeah, question.
>> Speaker 2: We're making the implicit
assumption here that the scopes array is
being coherently updated, globally, right?
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah, right,
elsewhere in the code, it's like,
it wasn't the slide,
other code is doing that,
we're not going to build the whole
thing from scratch in 10 minutes.
[LAUGH] All right, so
let's run that again, and hey,
we have fewer test failures, great.
All right, next up,
we're gonna do a visit binary expression.
Basically, we have two things we care
about here in the node argument,
which is the left and the right.
Now, from a naming perspective, you may
recall that in the formatter section we
also visited one of these binary nodes.
And there it was really important that we
remember that the operator is a string and
not a node, so although we were visiting,
or as we called it,
formatting in that section.
The left and the right the operator needed
to not be visited because it's just
a plain old string.
Now, for our purposes, what that sort of
translates to is like the operator doesn't
have any names in it, so we don't care,
we don't need to visit it.
There's nothing to do there, we're just
gonna completely disregard that field for
this stage of compilation.
And although it becomes important later
on and just basically just say, yep,
just visit the left node and the right
node, and that's it, and then we're done.
And there we go, okay.
So next up, we have the arrow function, so
here is the one where we actually
need to create a new scope,
so in order to create a new scope, we're
gonna just do scopes.push of a new set.
If you want,
you could choose to name this set and
then potentially make use of it later,
but since we're not actually doing
the square bracket.length -1
thing like we did two fixes ago.
There's kind of no reason to name it, so
I would just personally just push an
anonymous set here, then we've got a for
loop where you could use a for
each or whatever you like here.
Any of those would be all reasonable,
and basically we just wanna say, okay,
let's go through all the parameters
that we have here and
declare all of them now that
we're inside the scope.
So if we did this for loop and we did not
do the push, that would be where we'd
create the problem that we
talked about in the slides.
Where we are now pushing these parameters
that are supposed to be function
parameters into the same scope where
the function is being defined, and
then they're accessible outside
the end of the function.
It would be especially bad if we did
the scopes.pop at the end without doing
the scopes.push at the start,
because then we're sort of out denting,
we're leaving a scope
that we didn't begin.
We're just accidentally, it's as if
we inserted an extra curly brace and
somehow that parsed, but
then did bad things in terms of scoping.
So definitely always want a pair of your
pushes with your pops when doing this.
And then finally,
there's the very straightforward, okay,
now we've got all these variables in
scope, we're gonna visit the actual node
body, and now that body can make use of
all these things that we just declared.
As soon as we're done with the body,
that's the closed curly brace, and
then we do the scopes.pop to say nobody
else gets to use these variables.
Ordering is very important here,
so if you did this first and
you've visited,
what do you think would happen?
>> Speaker 2: You wouldn't
find any of your variables.
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: You wouldn't have populated.
>> Richard Feldman: [LAUGH] Exactly, yeah,
so everything other than your arguments
would be in scope,
everything the function closes over.
But as soon as you try to reference any
of your arguments, you immediately get
a naming error, so yeah, definitely
do those in the opposite order, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Point of clarity,
you may have already, we covered this,
we are using this push pop strategy
here in arrow functions because we
do not intend to persist their variables,
correct?
Because they're ad hoc functions and
we're not leaving them in our namespace.
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah, right, so these
are just like function parameters that
only exist in the body of the function,
nobody else gets to see them, yeah.
All right, cool then, okay, so
that was the actual last finger
area that we needed to address.